Israel's war on Gaza or at least 60
people have been killed in the past 24
hours after a strike in a home in betah
here rescue work has spent much of their
time searching the rubble for survivors
most of the injured are women and
children aan Doan is the founder and
president of the charity inara joins us
now from De albala in central Gaza Mr
Dam good to have you with us on Al jaaz
thanks for your time I mean what we do
know is that your group justes try and
help those um across the Gaza Strip so
in terms of getting Aid and permission
and permission to deliver that Aid as we
know is often problematic we've heard
from so many sources that it can be
what's your experience been of you
trying to do your bit in the past 24
hours you know if I had to summarize
what it was like to actually be in the
humanitarian space in Gaza it's either
constantly trying to turn yourself into
a mental pretzel to try to figure
something out or some sort of a weird
dark obscure version of mental Olympics
and I'll just give you an example of
what happened yesterday where I was
accompanying another organization to the
north and in case your viewers are not
aware Aid either comes in through a
Crossing in the South uh kamam Abu salm
or it comes in in a Crossing via the
north but there is no movement or easy
movement rather of Aid between the North
and the South and vice versa and this is
is problematic because the same items
don't come through every single crossing
point and in fact eight organizations
don't have much of a say in what comes
through so in the South you have a very
robust commercial Market you have the
availability of fruits and vegetables in
the north you only have flour and I was
uh taking part in in a mission to the
north with another organization trying
to deliver a truck of fresh vegetables
for distribution which would have been
sufficient for around 1,200 families
happened uh was that even though initial
approval came through for the movement
then in the morning the Israeli side
decided that they wanted the movement to
happen not in a closed truck but rather
one that was open now that's presumably
for security concerns why do
organizations now really want to shift
towards using closed trucks it's because
of the severe increase in looting and
criminal activity and you really want
the products to actually reach the
people that they need we ended up uh
deciding to just go up on our own in a
vehicle shoving as much as we could
inside because you know if you have the
opportunity to move even if you're just
able to provide for a small fraction of
people in my opinion it is well worth
the effort we then ended up waiting at
the holding point for permission for the
green light as it's called to get to the
north for about 4 hours before we were
ping ponged back and forth between turn
back go through turn back go through we
did eventually uh get through and what
you you really see when you get into
Gaza City itself is exactly how
destructive and widespread the
destruction actually is of every single
aspect of life that would make the Gaza
Strip inhabitable where I am standing
right now in this is pretty much the
only area in Gaza that is relatively
speaking Still Standing every single
other part of this tiny little stretch
of land has been rendered almost
completely and totally uninhabitable and
in the north you not only have a
shortage of you know just basic food
items and hygiene items you also have
people trying to live on top of the
rubble on top of the rubble of their
homes where their loved ones were killed
with no sanitation no food no proper
hygiene no water so uh m d you described
really everything that you know we've
heard of in minute detail and it is as
always horrific no matter who witnesses
uh the scene for themselves you visited
Gaza many times before in your
professional life do you recognize the
Gaza that you saw over the last 24 hours
to the Gaza that you
remember no I I don't but even more than
that you know I'm able to cross from you
know from the southern part of Gaza the
middle part of Gaza to the north um but
gazans are not permitted to cross and I
came back down with all of this footage
from the north and I was showing it to
friends of mine who are from Gaza City
and they were scrolling through my phone
saying arwa we we don't recognize
anything they were asking me the street
names because they couldn't recognize
anything and you know we have to realize
when we're talking about this level of
Destruction it's buildings that are
either completely destroyed or partially
destroyed or burned or riddled with
bullet holes it's you know streets that
are now filled with piles of rubble and
trash and garbage and it's not just that
people don't recognize streets that were
familiar the mental impact of all of
this this constant bombardment on a
person's soul and psyche has led to a
situation where most people will tell
you right now that they barely even
recognize themselves or their own people
there are very real fears about the
lawlessness that is growing the criminal
activity the Looting which is leading to
conversations about who is actually
going to begin to restore the the moral
code that existed among people rule of
law this is one of the conversation that
happens when everyone is talking about
the day after it extends Beyond access
to humanitarian
assistance it is uh an unfolding and
disturbing picture that you paint for us
but thanks very much for the update Arn
Damon there founder and president of the
charity inara joining us from dear oala
thank
[Music]
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer